---
title: Ariadne 0.3.0
---
<!--truncate-->

Ariadne 0.3.0 release is focused on further improving the support for GraphQL specification and developer experience. It adds support for subscriptions, enums, interfaces and union GraphQL types, and unifies the API across those types. It also greatly improves developer experience by the inclusion of debug mode, error reporting, and includes `graphql`, `graphql_sync` and `subscribe` wrappers that ease integrations with existing sites greatly. Lastly, it also provides `ASGI` application that works with asynchronous servers and frameworks like Uvicorn and [Starlette](https://starlette.io)

## CHANGELOG

- Added `EnumType` type for mapping enum variables to internal representation used in application.
- Added support for subscriptions.
- Updated Playground to 1.8.7.
- Split `GraphQLMiddleware` into two classes and moved it to `ariadne.wsgi`.
- Added an ASGI interface based on Starlette under `ariadne.asgi`.
- Replaced the simple server utility with Uvicorn.
- Made users responsible for calling `make_executable_schema`.
- Added `UnionType` and `InterfaceType` types.
- Updated library API to be more consistent between types, and work better with code analysis tools like PyLint. Added `QueryType` and `MutationType` convenience utils. Suffixed all types names with `Type` so they are less likely to clash with other libraries built-ins.
- Improved error reporting to also include Python exception type, traceback and context in the error JSON. Added `debug` and `error_formatter` options to enable developer customization.
- Introduced Ariadne wrappers for `graphql`, `graphql_sync`, and `subscribe` to ease integration into custom servers.

