---
title: Ariadne 0.*7*.0
---

Ariadne 0.8 release brings improvements to API modularization, makes `python-multipart` optional dependency, and updates dependencies to latest versions.


<!--truncate-->


## Modularization improvements

We've noticed an emerging pattern in GraphQL APIs implemented with Ariadne where developers create dedicated modules/packages in their project for scalars, mutations or types and then use their `__init__.py's` to gather all bindables into single lists:

In SDL, schema directives act as annotations adding extra information and meaning to schema's items. Ariadne already supported the `@deprecated` directive described by the specification and enabled developers to declare custom directives in schema with `directive @example on` syntax, but until now there was no obvious and easy way for developers to implement behavior for those:

```python
from .scalars import scalars  # [date_scalar, datetime_scalar]
from .types import types  # [query, book, user]
from .mutations import mutations  # [login, register, add_book, edit_book, publish_book, delete_book]
```

Those lists were then combined into single one at the time of passing them to `make_executable_schema`:

```python
schema = make_executable_schema(type_defs, scalars + types + mutations)
```

This code in itself didn't look that pleasant to us, and thing's only became worse when single bindable was thrown into the mix:

```python
from somewhere import library_type

schema = make_executable_schema(type_defs, scalars + types + mutations + [library_type])
```

We've decided to change `make_executable_schema` implementation to make `bindables` into `*args`:

```python
schema = make_executable_schema(type_defs, scalars, types, mutations, library_type)
```

For the time being both approaches are be supported (and also can be mixed), but we recommend all developers to migrate their projects to new approach.

In future version of Ariadne mixing lists with single bindables will require explicit syntax:

```
schema = make_executable_schema(type_defs, *scalars, *types, *mutations, library_type])
```

We have also fixed `load_schema_from_path` implementation to actually walk subdirectories in given path to find and parse `*.graphql` files, as it was documented.


## `python-multipart` is optional dependency

We have received a feedback that always installing `python-multipart` dependency is unwarranted behavior due to library being only required for file uploads in ASGI-based GraphQL servers and having potential name conflict with other library.

To address this we have made library optional. Developers may opt-in to install it by using `asgi-file-uploads` extra flag:

```console
pip install ariadne[asgi-file-uploads]
```


## CHANGELOG

- Added recursive loading of GraphQL schema files from provided path.
- Added support for passing multiple bindables as `*args` to `make_executable_schema`.
- Updated Starlette dependency to 0.13.
- Made `python-multipart` optional dependency for `asgi-file-uploads`.
- Added Python 3.8 to officially supported versions.
