---
title: Ariadne 0.17
---

Ariadne 0.17 is a maintenance release that unpins Starlette requirement and removes use of deprecated CGI module in WSGI implementation.

<!--truncate-->

## Unpinned Starlette dependency

Ariadne relies on [Starlette](https://starlette.io) library for its ASGI implementation. In past releases Starlette dependency was always pinned to a specific version, which forced new Ariadne release whenever new Starlette minor version was released.

Starting with Ariadne 0.17, Starlette dependency is specified as `<1.0`. Reasoning for this is that Ariadne only uses Starlette's ASGI implementation and no other features and in last 4 years of project's existence there was a single case when Starlette's update forced Us to change our implementation - early in 2019.

## Removed `cgi` dependency

`cgi` module is part of Python's standard library, providing utilities for writing HTTP servers. Ariadne's WSGI implementation used this module for extracting uploaded files from requests payloads.

Starting with Python 3.11, `cgi` module is now deprecated and Ariadne was moved to custom implementation using [python-multipart](https://github.com/andrew-d/python-multipart) library, and uploaded files are now instances of `File` class.

## `asgi-file-uploads` optional dependency renamed to `file-uploads`

Because both ASGI and WSGI implementation now requires `python-multipart` library, `asgi-file-uploads` was renamed to `file-uploads`. To make upgrade easier, both names are currently supported by Ariadne, but projects dependencies should be changed for Ariadne 0.18 which will drop `asgi-file-uploads`.

## Python 3.11

Starting with this release Ariadne is tested against Python 3.11.

## CHANGELOG

- Bumped starlette dependency in setup.py to `<1.0`.
- Added Python 3.11 to test matrix.
- Removed usage of deprecated `cgi` module.
- Renamed `asgi-file-uploads` optional dependency to `file-uploads`.
