---
title: Ariadne 0.15
---

Ariadne 0.15 is out!

This release updates GraphQL Core compatibility to version 3.2 and Starlette to versions 0.18 and 0.19. It also brings bunch of bug fixes and small improvements to the library contributed by the community. ❤️

With this release we are also dropping support for Python 3.6, which reached end of support as of 23 December 2021.

<!--truncate-->

## Changelog

- Updated `graphql-core` requirement to 3.2.0.
- Bumped `starlette` supported versions to 0.18 and 0.19.
- Drop Python 3.6 support.
- Added basic support for `OPTIONS` HTTP request.
- Refactor `ariadne.asgi.GraphQL` to make it easier to customize JSON response.
- Added `trace_default_resolver` to `ApolloTracingExtension` that enables tracing for default resolvers.
- Fixed `make_federated_schema` error when custom directive in schema has description.
- Moved `set_default_enum_values_on_schema`, `validate_schema_enum_values` and `type_implements_interface` to public API.
- Changed `graphql_sync` to use `execute_sync` instead of `execute`.
- Added `on_operation` hook to `ariadne.asgi.GraphQL` that's called when individual subscription operation is started.
- Added `on_complete` hook to `ariadne.asgi.GraphQL` that's called when individual subscription operation is completed.
- Updated `on_disconnect` hook so its called in Webhook handler's `finally` clause, making it called in more situations.
- Marked `Extension`, `ExtensionSync` and `SchemaBindable` protocols as `@runtime_checkable`.
- Renamed `parent` to `obj` in `ApolloTracing` and `OpenTracing` extensions so arg name won't cause conflict when custom resolver has `parent` arg.
