---
title: Ariadne 0.19
---

Ariadne 0.19 is now out!

Ariadne 0.19 is a feature release that brings improvements for GraphQL inputs and enums. It also includes improvements to the Apollo Federation implementation contributed by the community.

<!--truncate-->

## Input handling improvements

Ariadne now provides an `InputType` class which can be used to setup custom Python representation of GraphQL input types and mappings between input's fields and original Python directory with values:

```python
# Store input field's values under custom dict keys
InputType(
    "InputName",
    out_names={
        "isClosed": "is_closed",
        "isActive": "requires_activation",
    },
)
```

```python
@dataclass
class UserInput:
    name: str
    email: str
    requires_activation: Optional[bool] = None


InputType(
    "UserInput",
    # Logic for converting input's data to Python repr is customizable
    lambda data: UserInput(**data),
    {"isActive": "requires_activation"},
)
```


## Enum handling improvements

Ariadne already provides an `EnumType` class which can be used to assign custom Python values to GraphQL enums:

```python
class TaskPriority(enum.IntEnum):
    VERY_LOW = 0
    LOW = 1
    STANDARD = 2
    HIGH = 3
    URGENT = 4


EnumType("TaskPriority", TaskPriority)
```

`make_executable_schema` now accepts `Enum`s directly and attempts to associate them with their GraphQL counterparts on their name. In above case if there's already an enum in GraphQL schema named `TaskPriority`, `TaskPriority` can be passed to schema directly.

`EnumType` still remains useful in situations when enum's names are different between Python and GraphQL schema, and when enum's Python values are set using `dict`.


## Federation improvements

Our community has contributed few improvements to Ariadne's `contrib.federation` package, providing utilities for writing Apollo Federation subgraphs.

Thanks to Alexis Rhote's contributions, `make_federated_schema` now supports `convert_names_case` just like how `make_executable_schema` does.

Dan Lepadatu has contributed a support for `@interfaceObject` directive.

Dan Ring has contributed an improvements to Ariadne's federated schema processing logic, making it more tight and less error prone.

We would also like to give a shout out to Dariusz Kuc for keeping an eye on Ariadne's Federation support, and to Patrick Arminio for contributing template for federalable [Ariadne Fast API service](https://github.com/mirumee/subgraph-template-ariadne-fastapi).


## CHANGELOG

- Added `InputType` for setting Python representations of GraphQL Input types
- Added support for passing `Enum` types directly to `make_executable_schema`
- Added `convert_names_case` option to `make_federated_schema`.
- Added support for the `@interfaceObject` directive in Apollo Federation.
- Fixed federation support for directives without surrounding whitespace.