---
title: Ariadne Codegen 0.6
---

Ariadne Codegen 0.6 has been released!

This release brings further improvements and fixes to issues reported to us by our amazing community. It also adds `process_name` plugin hook as an escape hatch for developers not happy with Python names created for GraphQL schema items.

<!--truncate-->

## Changed scalars setting

In previous versions of Codegen custom scalars were configured using two callables and a a module to import them from:

```
serialize = "serialize_datetime"
parse = "parse_datetime"
import = "datetime_scalar"
```

Codegen 0.6 simplifies this to two full paths to callables:

```
serialize = "datetime_scalar.serialize_datetime"
parse = "datetime_scalar.parse_datetime"
```

Old approach is still supported but is considered deprecated and will stop working in future release.

## Support for GraphQL names that are Python keywords

Ariadne Codegen 0.6 will append `_` to generated Python names that would be valid Python keywords otherwise.

For example, given following type:

```
type Example {
    in: String
}
```

The `in` field will be represented as following declaration in generated Python code:

```python
class MyExampleResult:
    in_: Optional[str] = Field(alias="in")
```

## Unset and `None`

A lot of GraphQL servers differentiate between inputs fields not being set and them being set to empty value (`None`/`null`).

Ariadne Codegen 0.6 introduces new `Unset` type and defaults to not setting optional fields on inputs sent in queries `variables`.

## `process_name` plugin hook

Plugins can now define `process_name` hook to customize the generation of Python names for schema items:

```python
from typing import Optional

from graphql import Node, ObjectTypeDefinitionNode


class MyPlugin:
    def process_name(self, name: str, node: Optional[Node] = None) -> str:
        if isinstance(node, ObjectTypeDefinitionNode):
            ...  # return custom name for object type

        return name  # return name generated by from Ariadne Codegen
```

## Changelog

- Changed logic how custom scalar imports are generated. Deprecated `import_` key.
- Added escaping of GraphQL names which are Python keywords by appending `_` to them.
- Fixed parsing of list variables.
- Changed base clients to remove unset arguments and input fields from variables payload.
- Added `process_name` plugin hook.
