---
title: Ariadne 0.23
---

Ariadne 0.23 is now out.

Ariadne 0.23 is a maintenance release that adds opt-in support for executing `query` operations over `GET` requests, bumps Apollo Federation support to 2.6 and addresses two small bugs.

<!--truncate-->

## Support for executing queries made with GET requests

Ariadne 0.23 brings support for query execution made with GET HTTP requests. Only “query” type operations are executed, “mutation” and “subscription” operations will raise errors.

This is useful for clients retrieving data from the GraphQL API that could be cached over the HTTP using solutions like Varnish.

## Added support for the Apollo Federation versions up to 2.6

Our amazing community has contributed a patch for Ariadne that increases support for Apollo Federation up to version 2.6.

## Fixed deprecation warnings in Apollo Tracing extension

For those few who are using Apollo Tracing extension for utility of seeing resolvers execution time in response’s JSON payload, we have fixed the deprecation warnings.

## Blocked `subscription` execution in POST requests

It was possible to send a “subscription” operation to Ariadne over POST HTTP request, and the query executor would attempt to execute it, skipping the `source` call and thus producing an error in a resolver expecting some payload.

Ariadne 0.23 includes an extra validation step that raises a dedicated error when this is attempted.

## CHANGELOG

- Added `execute_get_queries` setting to the `GraphQL` apps that controls execution of the GraphQL "query" operations made with GET requests. Defaults to `False`.
- Added support for the Apollo Federation versions up to 2.6.
- Fixed deprecation warnings in Apollo Tracing extension.
- Added a check to prevent `subscription` operation execution when a query is made with POST request.
