---
title: Ariadne 0.24
---

Ariadne 0.24 is now available.

Ariadne 0.24 is a maintenance release that implements improvements and fixes to reported issues.

<!--truncate-->

## Added validation for directive declarations in `make_executable_schema` to prevent schema creation with undeclared directives

`SchemaDirectiveVisitor` that `make_executable_schema` uses for GraphQL directives will now raise the `ValueError` if directive is not declared in the GraphQL schema.

## Added `include_cookies` option to the `ExplorerApollo`

Apollo Explorer's `includeCookies` option can now be enabled in Ariadne via the `include_cookies` kwarg.

## Added `share_enabled` param to `ExplorerPlayground` to enable share playground feature

GraphQL Playground's `shareEnabled` option can now be enabled in Ariadne via the `share_enabled` kwarg.

## Added support for nested attribute resolution in alias resolvers

Ariadne's `resolve_to` utility now supports data structure traversal in created resolvers when `.` is used in the `attr_name` argument:

```python
resolver = resolve_to("attr.child_attr.deeper_child_attr")
```

## Replaced regexes in the Apollo Federation implementation with cleaner approach using GraphQL AST

Ariadne used series of regexes to process GraphQL schemas used for Apollo Federation. This approach was prone to errors and edge cases.

In 0.24 this approach was replaced with new one that instead parses schema to AST.

## CHANGELOG

- Added validation for directive declarations in `make_executable_schema` to prevent schema creation with undeclared directives.
- Replaced hardcoded HTTP statuses with `HTTPStatus` from the `http` stdlib module.
- Added `include_cookies` option to the `ExplorerApollo`.
- Fixed typing on `extract_data_from_request` method.
- Fixed tests websockets after starlette update.
- Added `share_enabled` param to `ExplorerPlayground` to enable share playground feature.
- Added support for nested attribute resolution in alias resolvers.
- Replaced regexes in the Apollo Federation implementation with cleaner approach using GraphQL AST.
