---
title: Ariadne 0.22
---

Ariadne 0.22 has been released!

This release fixes the invalid error message being returned from the `GraphQLTransportWSHandler` if the GraphQL error occurred for the query or mutation operations. It also improves implementation of enums handling.

<!--truncate-->

## Fixed `GraphQLTransportWSHandler` error responses

`GraphQLTransportWSHandler` would return an incorrect error payload for `query` and `mutation` operations that errored. `payload` for `error` message should be a list of GraphQL errors, but due to a bug in implementation, it would be a list with single `{errors: [...]}` result.

## Improvements to enum handling

GraphQL comes with a number of quirks when it comes to enums behavior, especially converting their GraphQL values to Python, and vice-versa.

Previously Ariadne relied on the logic implemented by the `EnumType` bindable for handling this behavior, but Ariadne 0.22 moves this logic from `EnumType.bind_to_default_values` into a new `repair_schema_default_enum_values` utility. `validate_schema_enum_values` utility has been replaced with new `validate_schema_default_enum_values` utility.

## Changelog

- Deprecated `EnumType.bind_to_default_values` method. It will be removed in a future release.
- Added `repair_schema_default_enum_values` to public API.
- Removed `validate_schema_enum_values` and introduced `validate_schema_default_enum_values` in its place. This is a breaking change.
- Fixed an invalid error message returned by the `GraphQLTransportWSHandler` for `query` and `mutation` operations.
